RDI 1.19.0 release notes (#3635)
redis/docs: content/integrate/redis-data-integration/release-notes/rdi-1-19-0.md

---
Title: Redis Data Integration release notes 1.19.0 (July 2026)
alwaysopen: false
categories:
- docs
- operate
- rs
description: |
  New redis-di CLI for VM, Kubernetes, and Redis Cloud installations.
  New Redis sorted set and stream outputs for the Flink processor, expanded Snowflake configuration, and Flink processor support for offline VM installations.
  Improved pipeline status, secret updates, support packages, and error handling.
linkTitle: 1.19.0 (July 2026)
toc: 'true'
weight: 969
---

## What's New in 1.19.0

### Compatibility Notes

> - **Unified JSON merge behavior for the Flink processor**: JSON merge behavior is now the same for every supported target Redis version. Null leaf values are deleted for targets without native `JSON.MERGE` support, matching targets that support the command. This differs from the classic processor fallback behavior, which writes JSON nulls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Unified JSON merge behavior for the Flink processor**: JSON merge behavior is now the same for every supported target Redis version. Null leaf values are deleted instead of written as JSON nulls in all cases. This differs from the classic processor fallback behavior, which writes JSON nulls.
```

When reading this, I had a little trouble parsing what the exact relation to native json merge was. I find the suggestion above clearer, wdyt?

- **Previous CLI image and secret script retired**: The `redis/rdi-cli` Docker image is no longer built or published, and `rdi-secret.sh` has been removed. Use the `redis-di` CLI secret commands instead.

### New Features

> - **New `redis-di` CLI**: The `redis-di` command-line tool has been rewritten in Go as a thin client for the RDI REST API. It works across VM, Kubernetes (Helm), and Redis Cloud installations and supports multiple pipelines and both processor types. It provides create, read, update, and delete operations for pipelines and secrets; commands for dead-letter queues, jobs, and metric collections; and table, JSON, or YAML output. Authentication options include user and password credentials, Redis Cloud account and user keys, or no credentials when API authentication is disabled. Self-contained binaries are available for Linux, macOS, and Windows, and Linux binaries are included in the VM installer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **New `redis-di` CLI**: The `redis-di` command line tool has been rewritten in Go as a thin client for the RDI REST API. It works across VM, Kubernetes (Helm), and Redis Cloud installations and supports multiple pipelines and both processor types. It provides create, read, update, and delete operations for pipelines and secrets; commands for dead letter queues, jobs, and metric collections; and table, JSON, or YAML output. Authentication options include user and password credentials, Redis Cloud account and user keys, or no credentials when API authentication is disabled. Self-contained binaries are available for Linux, macOS, and Windows, and Linux binaries are included in the VM installer.
```

- **Snowflake table configuration and encrypted keypairs**: Snowflake source tables now accept `keys` to select keys and `columns` to project columns. Snowflake sources also support encrypted private keys.
- **Pipeline metadata revision and tags**: Pipeline `config.metadata` now accepts an optional non-negative `revision` and up to 50 unique slug-like `tags`, each up to 50 characters long.
- **Redis sorted set outputs for the Flink processor**: `redis.write` outputs can use `data_type: sorted_set` with `args.member` and `args.score` to emit `ZADD` and `ZREM` commands.

> - **Redis stream outputs for the Flink processor**: `redis.write` outputs can use `data_type: stream` to append each change event to a target stream with `XADD`.

Reviewer 3: I don't see `set` and `string`, have they been released with a previous version? If not, they should be added.

> - **Flink processor support in offline VM installations**: The offline VM installation package now includes the Flink processor and metrics aggregator images. The installer disk-space requirement has increased to account for the additional images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Flink processor support in offline VM installations**: The offline VM installation package now includes the Flink processor and metrics aggregator images. The installer disk space requirement has increased to account for the additional images.
```

- **Expanded pipeline status**: `GET /api/v2/pipelines/{name}/status` now reports the number of ready replicas for each component.
- **Flink processor support-package diagnostics**: `dump-support-package` now collects Flink processor diagnostics, including per-stream ingest statistics and ingress metrics.
- **Operator leader-election status**: `GET /api/v2/info` now reports whether operator leader election is disabled or whether the operator is the leader or a follower.

### Improvements

- **Detailed source connection errors**: Source database connection failures returned by `GET /api/v2/pipelines/{name}/source-schemas/{source}` now identify the underlying cause instead of returning a generic error.
- **Merged Flink processor status**: Pipeline status and metric collection endpoints now report the Flink JobManager and TaskManager as one `flink-processor` component, with the status reflecting the least healthy part.

> - **Secret updates reflected in pipeline status**: After a source or target database secret changes, the pipeline remains not current and non-terminal until all consuming components have restarted with the new secret.

Reviewer 2: Seems a bit sharper.
```suggestion
- **Secret updates reflected in pipeline status**: After a source or target database secret changes, the pipeline remains non-current and non-terminal until all consuming components have restarted with the new secret.
```

### Bug Fixes

> - Support-package logs now retain structured key-value parameters, including operator reconciliation context.

Reviewer 2: It seems to have got a bit carried away with all these hyphens!
```suggestion
- Support package logs now retain structured key-value parameters, including operator reconciliation context.
```

- Deleting a pipeline through API v2 now resets it to an empty inactive configuration without deleting the Kubernetes Pipeline resource, avoiding unstable reconciliation after operator restarts and removing persisted runtime data.
- When an update changes a custom Redis key, the Flink processor now removes the entry under the previous key before writing the new one.
- Nested JSON outputs now apply MongoDB `$unset` removals during updates instead of leaving stale fields in the parent JSON document.
- Rotating target database passwords or TLS certificates no longer restarts the RDI API.
- Pipeline status no longer remains on a completed user-requested operation when a later runtime issue moves the pipeline to `pending`.

> - Deployments no longer briefly report secret-provider configuration errors while the Secrets Store CSI driver mounts volumes. Mount warnings are reported only when the failure persists for at least 30 seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Deployments no longer briefly report secret provider configuration errors while the Secrets Store CSI driver mounts volumes. Mount warnings are reported only when the failure persists for at least 30 seconds.
```

- Updating an external secret now restarts every affected component and reports the pipeline as `updating` until the restart completes.
- The first record after a snapshot-to-change-data-capture transition, or the reverse transition, is no longer counted twice in the Flink processor's per-stream `incoming` metric.
- Multiline custom snapshot SQL no longer causes pipeline deployment to fail with a server error.
- Source table and column names containing Java regular-expression characters are now escaped correctly during schema introspection.

> - Flink processor JSON writes to a key holding a non-JSON value are now rejected to the dead-letter queue instead of leaving the batch pending.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Source table and column names containing Java regular expression characters are now escaped correctly during schema introspection.
- Flink processor JSON writes to a key holding a non-JSON value are now rejected to the dead letter queue instead of leaving the batch pending.
```
